Let me scroll back up to where we had our cost.
We're going to add two loops here.
The first one will be for i in range.
And then how far do we want to go.
We want to go across all the theta values.
So it's gonna be an R on the school vetoes between the parentheses and then colon and we're going to
do the same thing for our second loop when it's a for j in range parentheses and underscore theta as
colon.
Now what do we want to do inside the loop.
Let's do something very unimaginative.
First let's print out all the values that we have inside our plot underscore T Zero variable and we're
going to print them out one by one.
So we're gonna have plot on the school t 0 square brackets and now we have a choice we can go row by
column or column by row.
So if we go by column then we'd have I in the first set of square brackets and then J in the second
set of square brackets.
Let's see what happens.
There we go.
This is us printing out 25.
Values the 25 values that are stored inside our theta matrix are theta five by five.
Array the other way say J and I.
Our output would look like this.
In this case we're staying in the same column namely the first one and we're looking at all the first
elements.
If we have I and then J then we're doing one row at a time.
So this is the first element in the row.
This the second element in the row.
This is the third one.
This is the fourth one is the fifth one.
And then this is the first element in the second row on the other hand if we have J and then I then
we would be looking at the first element in the first row the first element in the second row the first
element in the third row and so on.
So the order in which we supply the indices here to our two dimensional array it matters in the sense
that it determines in which order our loop will go through the array.
But regardless in which order you go through you still hit up all the values.
So I want to comment this out and how I'm going to write the code to calculate our estimated y values
so y hat is equal to the first value in half the theta zero array.
It's going to be plot underscore t 0 square brackets C I and then square brackets.
J So this is gonna be our first t zero value when you add plot underscore t 1 square brackets.
I square brackets.
J times X on the score 5.
So this is gonna cascade our predicted y values for the first set of theta parameters and then what
we're gonna say it's going to say that the plot underscore cost matrix is going to update and it's going
to update in the same position.
It's gonna be updating in square brackets ie square brackets.
J And it's gonna be equal to the output from our lovely means squared error function.
So MSE parentheses y and a score five and then comma Y underscore that so we're gonna calculate r y
hat value for these theta parameters and then based on that we're going to calculate our means quit
error and we're gonna update our two dimensional cost array and we're gonna do that for all of the theta
values so we can plot them later on.
So there's a lot of calculations going on here but there's only four lines of code.
This is very very terse but very powerful at the same time.
Let's take a look at what the plot on the scope cost variable actually looks like after the loop has
run.
Let's take a look.
When redshift enter and here we see that it has a five by five matrix.
I can prove this even though it's hard to see because of the lines wrapping.
If I say plot underscore cost dot shape you can see here it's five by five and we can see that any for
each element we've got a mean squared error for a particular combination of factors let's print this
stuff out so that we can verify what's going on when we make changes later on.
So when I see print and then the string shape of plot underscore T Zero comma plot on the got T Zero
dot shape then I'm going to copy this print statement paste it two more times and in the second one
way to change it to t 1 and then the third one I'm going to change it to plot underscore cost so this
is printing out the dimensions of all the three arrays that we're using and at the moment they're all
five by five good stuff.
It's time to throw the stuff up onto a chart.
A 3D chart.
No less.
Let's take a look at a comment in this new cell plotting mean square error.
And I want to do our old trick with the figure Missy fig is equal to appeal to dot figure parentheses
fixed size equals square brackets say sixteen by twelve and then you've got some axes that I've got
to create.
So it's going to be fig don't GCA get current axes and it's gonna be for a 3D projection so projection
equals and then the string three D lowercase d had our charts gonna have three axes it's gonna have
a Y label on X label and a Z label.
So I'm going to see a X dot set on the school X label parentheses and then the string theta zero So
theta zero is gonna be on our x axis and it's gonna be at font size say 20.
Copy that whole line pasted two more times and then I would make some changes.
Second one is gonna set the Y label.
The third one is gonna set these z label and then the string is gonna be updated to theta one and then
for the z axis.
This is gonna be it's gonna be our cost right.
Cost hyphen M S E.
So we've created our plot set the size of our figure then we've grabbed our axes object from our figure
we've set some of the attributes of the axes using the set and the score X label set on the score y
label and set underscore Z label functions and how we do the best part a X dot plot on the score surface
and inside the parentheses we have to supply three two dimensional arrays the first one was gonna be
our theta zero.
So this is on our x axis.
The second one it's gonna be plot on the score t 1 and this is gonna be for our y axis and the third
one is gonna be the cost that we calculated in our nested loop so plot on the score cost.
And finally we're gonna see BLT dot show with some parentheses at the end.
Now we should be able to get a visualization of all that work we just did.
And before I hit shift into let me just quickly check the code that I've written.
See if I've made any typos I'm spotting one of them here in setting the figure we got to use our math
plot lib object which is P.L. T dot figure not porch type figure.
So PDT was our met plot lib object and peel T dot figure grabs our figure object.
I think we're good now.
So let me hit shift enter and see what this looks like what it looks like.
So I realize this might be a little bit underwhelming and it looks like a video game from the 1990s.
This is I think the kind of graphics they had but we can change this very very easily if I scrolled
back up and increase the number of data points we're using from five to say two hundred and I update
this cell then we're gonna generate a lot more theta zeros and a lot more theta ones with our little
space function has such.
When I had shift enter on this cell I can see that we're now dealing with a 200 by 200 array.
So a lot more data points that we're plotting now.
And when I replant are surface biting shift into here to update this cell then it will look something
like this.
Brilliant.
How are you liking the navy blue.
I think we've got to add a splash of color to this to make it a bit more interesting.
I'm going to go back up to my plot surface function and I'm going to make use of this color map that
we imported earlier.
It's gonna be an extra argument I'm gonna supply here.
See map and it's going to be set equal to our CRM module.
Put a dot after it and then when I use hot and head shift into.
Now this is gonna look pretty good.
I personally think this surface doesn't just look hot.
You could say it almost looks cheap.
But before I lose you to this video game let's compare our function and our calculations to our regression
estimates because we can actually pull out the lowest means quit error from our plot variable.
Right.
So if I come down here and I write print and then write mean value of plot underscore cost comma plot
on the score.
Cost don't mean.
And then some parentheses I can actually pull out the lowest mean squared error from our surface plot
that we just used for graphing and that is zero point 9 4 8 3 8.
But hold on I hear you say what are the theta zero and theta one values associated with that cost that
we just pulled out.
I mean after all we care about our parameter values.
Right.
So how can we grab the row and the column indices which correspond to this minimum cost.
And for that num Pi has you covered.
It's got a function called unravel index.
So when I say I J underscore mine is equal to NDP doesn't unravel on the score index and it needs two
inputs.
It needs the indices and that's going to be equal to plot on the score cost.
Don't.
And then ARG Min.
So this will output the indices from R to the array where the means quit.
ERA is at its lowest.
And then we have a comma afterwards.
And we supply that second input to the unravel index function and that's the dimensions.
D I M S of the 2D array that we are supplying so we can say DMS is equal to plot on the scope cost dot
shape and this will give us the row and the column index.
Let's point this out.
Print C Min occurs at I comma.
J.
Colon comma I J underscore min to the minimum occurs at the one hundred and eleven throw and ninety
first column.
So this is where after running that nested for loop de means quit Arrow was the lowest the theta zero
value associated with row number one hundred and eleven and column ninety one is as follows.
Print Min M is E for theta zero at plot underscore T Zero square brackets 1 1 1 square brackets ninety
one is plot underscore T Zero square brackets 1 1 1 and then square brackets ninety one hitting shift
enter we can see that this is fiendishly close to what the second loan package calculated how course
using a nested for loop is not better it s hits very much a brute force method but I kind of wanted
to show you how you can use these 2d arrays and how you can work with them and how you can access particular
values using the row and the column indices let's do that one more time but this time we'll grab the
theta one value just for good measure so be print and then Min MSE for theta one at plot underscore
t one square brackets one one one square brackets ninety one comma plot on the score t one square brackets
one one one square brackets ninety one.
So this should be close to one point two.
Let's take a look and it is it's one point two three.
Brilliant.
Now all that's left to do is run our gradient descent algorithm on this cost function and then we've
come full circle.
I'll see you in the next lesson.
Super hot is actually one of the most interesting games I've played recently by the way so I just had
to mention it it's this first person shooter but with a twist time only moves forward when you move
and there's no music it's just the sound effect of glass shattering Oh that's right that's that's it.
So yeah.
If you're curious uh check it out on steam if you want a break from programming.
I do hope you get super hot to try and let me know what you think.
Just the truth to what I did and play it really late at night because if you're anything like me we'll
get too excited and you'll have trouble sleeping.
So yeah take it.